>> Zac Gordon: When it comes to
decoupled authentication, so
that means we're running on a site or
instance separate from the WordPress one.
We're not in a theme,
we're not in a plugin.
We have a few options for authentication.
First one is BasicAuth, and with BasicAuth
what you do is you have to install
a BasicAuth plugin on your WordPress site.
And then you basically pass over SSL, your
username, and password with every request,
and so that would be saved and
passed over again and again.
This is not really the preferred method,
although you're trying to
get something testing.
It could be an option, but remember,
you need a BasicAuth plugin on your
site and then your code can use it.
The next option and the one that
we're going to be looking at, and
we even have a course on,
are JSON web tokens.
This is still using your username and
password, but
a slightly different architecture behind
the scenes to pass it back and forth and
using tokens In addition to just
passing a straight password every time.
So that means that you don't have
to send it over and over again,
slightly more secure.
And guess what?
Frontend Masters has a course on JWT,
so go check that out and
that's what we'll be using.
But again with JWT you also need a JWT
plugin installed on your site to create
the endpoint and process all the data
when we try to hit it By default right
now WordPress does not have decoupled
authentication baked into course.
So all of these thing that we look at or
going to involve some sort of plug in.
Then we have OAuth one and two and
they are options for both of these.
Again you need stuff setup on your
WordPress site, the plug in install And
in your code you need to write
all the code to handle that and
there's a few plug ins that
are available for that, and
if you look at the main WordPress rest
API it recommends some specific one's.
Then there's a whole another system
called, The WordPress API Broker.
So, if you are building an app or
you built a site that you
want people to be able to ping with an
API, and you're creating that username and
password and you know your credentials
to do it, that's one thing.
But what happens when you want other
people to create credentials on the fly
and interact with your site On their own.
What you introduce at that point is a
broker that will kind of sit between your
site and allow people to get access and
credentials that are still secure and
processed.
So you can check out this URL for
more on that,
it's definitely an advanced thing, so
you want to know what you're doing.
With OAuth to begin.
But the W API Broker is
a really powerful thing.
And if we wanted to someday see
something like how you could
use GitHub or Google Account to
login to different other accounts,
you could potentially set up your
WordPress site To work that way.
Now, you need a lot of distribution,
so it's likely to happen.
There will maybe be a case where somebody
needs this for a project or something, so
that's why I'm mentioning it.
And then finally, I also wanna point
out that there is another API client.
So we're doing all of this by hand.
We're using and we're hardcoding in
the requests we wanna do every time.
If we didn't want to do that
there is a really great client
called the Node Word Press API Client and
it's just Java Script it can run node but
it doesn't have to be nodes.
So, you can use it just any client side.
And I kinda debated between having a whole
example be in this client versus not.
And the reason I chose is not to do or
demo with this.
Is that if we only rely on clients and
then the client can't so
something we want,
we're kind of in hot water.
So if we learn how to do it the most
flexible way from the start and
then we learn and approach later on,
it makes everything easier for
90 to 99% of the cases,
then this is a way better scenario.
So, in the final repo,
I haven't put it up there.
I'll give you a whole app that's
built with the node API client.
So you can see, and
it's similar to the backbone one, but
it's even cleaner in how stuff works,
it's got a really great syntax.
And it has a little bit of authentication
baked into it, but not everything.
So you can't do OAuth and JWT, but
if you wanted to do BasicAuth, it has
the support to be able to handle that.
And I do believe that It will continue
to be supported and grown, and
have other authentication
methods going forward.
So this is what we need to know,
to basically
have the frame of reference to be able to
start working with this authentication.
Remember SSL on your WordPress site,
SSL on your decoupled app.
Plugin to handle whatever authentication.
So BasicOAuth plugin, JWT plugin,
OAuth 1 OAuth 2 plugin, whatever.
And then you call that from your site.